"Use secrets management" guide (#2130)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/5.17/guides/secrets-management.md

In this guide, you'll learn how to use Sensu's built-in secrets provider, `Env`, or [HashiCorp Vault][1] as your external [secrets provider][2] and authenticate without exposing your secrets

To follow this guide, you’ll need to [install the Sensu backend][5], have at least one [Sensu agent][11] running, and [install and configure sensuctl][7].

Secrets are configured via [secrets resources][8].
A secret resource definition refers to the secrets provider (`Env` or `VaultProvider`) and an ID (the named secret to fetch from the secrets provider).

This guide explains how to set up your [PagerDuty Events API Integration Key][27] as a secret and a PagerDuty handler that requires the secret.
Your Sensu backend can then execute the handler with any check.

You can use secrets management in handler, mutator, and check execution.
This guide only covers the handler use case.
For secrets management in checks, the Sensu backend will transmit requests over its secure transport (TLS-encrypted websockets) to your Sensu agent to execute your check, so mTLS must be enabled.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

In this guide, you'll learn how to use Sensu's built-in secrets provider, `Env`, or [HashiCorp Vault][1] as your external [secrets provider][2] and authenticate without exposing your secrets

To follow this guide, you’ll need to [install the Sensu backend][5], have at least one [Sensu agent][11] running, and [install and configure sensuctl][7].

Secrets are configured via [secrets resources][8].
A secret resource definition refers to the secrets provider (`Env` or `VaultProvider`) and an ID (the named secret to fetch from the secrets provider).

This guide explains how to set up your [PagerDuty Events API Integration Key][27] as a secret and a PagerDuty handler that requires the secret.
Your Sensu backend can then execute the handler with any check.

You can use secrets management in handler, mutator, and check execution.
This guide only covers the handler use case.
For secrets management in checks, the Sensu backend will transmit requests over its secure transport (TLS-encrypted websockets) to your Sensu agent to execute your check, so mTLS must be enabled.

> **Is this true for Vault? Even though we're using the no-TLS development server?**

Author: ```suggestion
```

The secret included in your Sensu handler will be exposed to Sensu services at runtime as an environment variable.

> Sensu automatically redacts the `secrets` scope of the request payload and the environment variable from all Sensu service logs and dashboards to prevent secret leakage.

Author: ```suggestion
Sensu only exposes secrets to Sensu services like environment variables and automatically redacts secrets from all logs, the API, and the dashboard.
```

---
title: "Use secrets management in Sensu"
linkTitle: "Use Secrets Management"

> description: "Sensu's secrets management allows you to avoid exposing secrets in your Sensu configuration. In this guide, you'll learn how to use Env or HashiCorp Vault as your external secrets management provider and refer to external secrets in your Sensu configuration."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Sensu's secrets management allows you to avoid exposing secrets like usernames and passwords in your Sensu configuration. In this guide, you'll learn how to use Sensu's built-in secrets provider or HashiCorp Vault and refer to external secrets in your Sensu configuration."
```

weight: 175
version: "5.17"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: False
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.17:
    parent: guides
---

- [Use Env for secrets management](#use-env-for-secrets-management)
  - [Create your backend environment variable](#create-your-backend-environment-variable)
  - [Create your secret](#create-your-secret)
- [Use HashiCorp Vault for secrets management](#use-hashicorp-vault-for-secrets-management)
  - [Retrieve your Vault root token](#retrieve-your-vault-root-token)
  - [Create your Vault secrets provider](#create-your-vault-secrets-provider)
  - [Create your secret](#create-your-secret)
- [Add a handler](#add-a-handler)
  - [Register the PagerDuty handler asset](#register-the-pagerduty-handler-asset)
  - [Add your secret to the handler spec](#add-your-secret-to-the-handler-spec)
- [Next steps](#next-steps)

**COMMERCIAL FEATURE**: Access the Env and VaultProvider secrets provider datatypes in the packaged Sensu Go distribution.
For more information, see [Get started with commercial features][20].

> Sensu's secrets management allows you to avoid exposing secrets in your Sensu configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
Sensu's secrets management allows you to avoid exposing secrets like usernames, passwords, and access keys in your Sensu configuration.
```

> In this guide, you'll learn how to use Sensu's built-in secrets provider, `Env`, and [HashiCorp Vault][1] as your external [secrets provider][2] and authenticate without exposing secrets like usernames, passwords, and access keys.

Author: ```suggestion
In this guide, you'll learn how to use Sensu's built-in secrets provider, `Env`, or [HashiCorp Vault][1] as your external [secrets provider][2] and authenticate without exposing your secrets
```

To follow this guide, you’ll need to [install the Sensu backend][5], have at least one [Sensu agent][11] running, and [install and configure sensuctl][7].

> Secrets are configured via [`secrets` resources][8].

Author: ```suggestion
Secrets are configured via [secrets resources][8].
```

A secret resource definition refers to the secrets provider (`Env` or `VaultProvider`) and an ID (the named secret to fetch from the secrets provider).

> Your backend will execute a PagerDuty handler that requires your secret.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to set up your PagerDuty service routing key as a secret and a PagerDuty handler that requires the secret.
Your Sensu backend can then execute the handler with any check.
```

> The Sensu backend will transmit a request over its secure transport (TLS-encrypted websockets) to your Sensu agent to execute your handler.

Author: ```suggestion
The Sensu backend will transmit requests over its secure transport (TLS-encrypted websockets) to your Sensu agent to execute your handler.
```

> The Sensu backend will transmit requests over its secure transport (TLS-encrypted websockets) to your Sensu agent to execute your handler.

Reviewer: Secrets are not transported over TLS-encrypted websockets for handlers. Secrets are only transported over TLS-encypted websockets for checks that use secrets.

```suggestion
While secrets management is compatible for use in handler, mutator, and check execution, this guide will only cover the handler use case. For secrets management in checks, the Sensu backend will transmit requests over its secure transport (TLS-encrypted websockets) to your Sensu agent to execute your check, so mTLS must be enabled.
```

**Is this true for Vault? Even though we're using the no-TLS development server?**

> Your Sensu handler will include secrets that are exposed to Sensu services at runtime as environment variables.

Author: ```suggestion
The secret included in your Sensu handler will be exposed to Sensu services at runtime as an environment variable.
```

> **Is this true for Vault? Even though we're using the no-TLS development server?**

Reviewer 2: Yes, all secrets regardless of provider are only transmitted to agents if the agent is using TLS.

> While secrets management is compatible for use in handler, mutator, and check execution, this guide will only cover the handler use case. For secrets management in checks, the Sensu backend will transmit requests over its secure transport (TLS-encrypted websockets) to your Sensu agent to execute your check, so mTLS must be enabled.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use secrets management in handler, mutator, and check execution.
This guide only covers the handler use case.
For secrets management in checks, the Sensu backend will transmit requests over its secure transport (TLS-encrypted websockets) to your Sensu agent to execute your check, so mTLS must be enabled.
```

> The `secrets` scope of the request payload and the environment variables are automatically redacted from all Sensu service logs and dashboards to prevent secret leakage.

Author: ```suggestion
Sensu automatically redacts the `secrets` scope of the request payload and the environment variable from all Sensu service logs and dashboards to prevent secret leakage.
```

> Sensu automatically redacts the `secrets` scope of the request payload and the environment variable from all Sensu service logs and dashboards to prevent secret leakage.

Reviewer: What do you mean by "request payload"?

Author: I think I added that when I was using the secrets API for the examples. I should probably change it to match the secrets provider reference:
Sensu only exposes secrets to Sensu services like environment variables and automatically redacts secrets from all logs, the API, and the dashboard.

Reviewer 3: I think this is a reference to the check request received by agents

## Use Env for secrets management

> The [Sensu Go commercial distribution][1] includes a built-in secrets provider, `Env`, that exposes secrets from [environment variables][4] on your Sensu backend nodes.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Sensu Go commercial distribution][1] includes a built-in secrets provider, `Env`, that exposes secrets from [environment variables][4] on your Sensu backend nodes.
The `Env` secrets provider is automatically created with an empty `spec` when you start your Sensu backend.
```

### Create your backend environment variable

> The `Env` secrets provider is automatically created with an empty `spec` when you start your Sensu backend.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> You will add your secret as a [backend environment variable][21].

Author: ```suggestion
To use the built-in `Env` secrets provider, you will add your secret as a [backend environment variable][21].
```

To use the built-in `Env` secrets provider, you will add your secret as a [backend environment variable][21].

First, make sure you have created the files where you will store [backend environment variables][21]. 

Then, retrieve your [PagerDuty Events API Integration Key][27].
This is the secret you will set up as an environment variable.

Run the following code, after you replace `INTEGRATION_KEY` with your PagerDuty Events API Integration Key:

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight "Ubuntu/Debian" >}}
$ echo 'SENSU_PAGERDUTY_KEY=INTEGRATION_KEY' | sudo tee /etc/default/sensu-backend
$ sudo systemctl restart sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight "RHEL/CentOS" >}}
$ echo 'SENSU_PAGERDUTY_KEY=INTEGRATION_KEY' | sudo tee /etc/sysconfig/sensu-backend
$ sudo systemctl restart sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

> This configures the `sensu-pagerduty-key` flag as an environment variable set to your PagerDuty Events API Integration Key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configures the `SENSU_PAGERDUTY_KEY` environment variable to your PagerDuty Events API Integration Key in the context of the sensu-backend process.
```

### Create your secret

Next, use sensuctl create to create your secret.
This code creates a secret named `pagerduty_key` that refers to the environment variable ID `sensu-pagerduty-key`.
Run:

{{< highlight shell >}}
cat << EOF | sensuctl create
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: pagerduty_key
  namespace: default
spec:

>   id: sensu-pagerduty-key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  id: SENSU_PAGERDUTY_KEY
```

  id: sensu-pagerduty-key
  provider: env
EOF
{{< /highlight >}}

Now you can securely pass your PagerDuty service routing key in Sensu checks, handlers, and mutators by referring to the `pagerduty_key` secret.
In this guide, you'll use your `pagerduty_key` secret in a [handler][19].

## Use HashiCorp Vault for secrets management

> This section explains how to use [HashiCorp Vault][1] as your external [secrets provider][2] and authenticate via the HashiCorp Vault integration's [token auth method][3] or [TLS certificate auth method][4].

Author: ```suggestion
This section explains how to use [HashiCorp Vault][1] as your external [secrets provider][2] to authenticate via the HashiCorp Vault integration's [token auth method][3] or [TLS certificate auth method][4].
```

### Retrieve your Vault root token

You will need to set up [HashiCorp Vault][15] to use `VaultProvider` secrets management in production.
The examples in this guide use the [Vault dev server][18], which is useful for learning and experimenting.

> Using the Vault dev server gives you access to a preconfigured, running Vault server with in-memory storage that you can use right away.

Author: ```suggestion
The Vault dev server gives you access to a preconfigured, running Vault server with in-memory storage that you can use right away.
```

> Follow the [HashiCorp Learn curriculum][16] when you are ready to set up a production-ready server in Vault.

Author: ```suggestion
Follow the [HashiCorp Learn curriculum][16] when you are ready to set up a production server in Vault.
```

To retrieve your root token:

> 1. Download and install the Vault edition for your OS https://www.vaultproject.io/downloads/

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Download and install][25] the Vault edition for your operating system.
```

3. Find the `Root Token` value for your Vault dev server in the command output and copy it.

Leave the Vault dev server running.

### Create your Vault secrets provider

_**NOTE**: In Vault's dev server, TLS is not enabled, so you won't be able to use certificate-based authentication. The dev server also requires Vault's HTTP API version `v2`. When you use Vault in production, you will need to configure the [TLS attribute][17] and change the `version` to `v1`._

Use `sensuctl create` to create your secrets provider, `vault`.
In the code below, replace `ROOT_TOKEN` with the `Root Token` value for your Vault dev server.
Then, run:

{{< highlight shell >}}
cat << EOF | sensuctl create
---
type: VaultProvider
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: vault
spec:
  client:
    address: http://localhost:8200
    token: ROOT_TOKEN
    version: v2
    tls: null
    max_retries: 2
    timeout: 20s
    rate_limiter:
      limit: 10
      burst: 100
EOF
{{< /highlight >}}

### Create your secret

> _**NOTE**: Because you aren't using TLS, you will need to add `export VAULT_ADDR=http://127.0.0.1:8200` in your bash profile._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_**NOTE**: Because you aren't using TLS, you will need to set `VAULT_ADDR=http://127.0.0.1:8200` in your shell environment._
```

_**NOTE**: Because you aren't using TLS, you will need to add `export VAULT_ADDR=http://127.0.0.1:8200` in your bash profile._

> 1. Retrieve your PagerDuty service routing key.

Author: ```suggestion
First, retrieve your PagerDuty service routing key.
```

This is the secret you will set up in Vault.

> 2. Open a new terminal and run `vault kv put secret/pagerduty key=SERVICE_ROUTING_KEY`.

Author: ```suggestion

Once you have your PagerDuty service routing key, open a new terminal and run `vault kv put secret/pagerduty key=SERVICE_ROUTING_KEY`.
```

Replace `SERVICE_ROUTING_KEY` with your PagerDuty service routing key.

This writes your secret into Vault.
In this example, the name of the secret is `pagerduty`.

> The `pagerduty` secret contains a key, and you specified that the `key` value is your PagerDuty service routing key.

Author: ```suggestion
The `pagerduty` secret contains a key, and you specified that the `key` value is your PagerDuty service routing key.
The `id` value for your secret will be `secret/pagerduty#key`.
```

**Is the service routing key the same as the API Integration key mentioned in PagerDuty docs at https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/generating-api-keys#section-events-api-keys ?**

The `id` value for secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault must start with the name of the secret's path in Vault.
The Vault dev server is preconfigured with the `secret` keyspace already set up, so we recommend using the `secret/` path for the `id` value while you are learning and getting started with Vault secrets management.

Run `vault kv get secret/pagerduty` to see the secret you just set up.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> **STOPPED HERE FRIDAY**

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Use sensuctl create to create your secret:

Author: ```suggestion
Use `sensuctl create` to create your `vault` secret:
```

api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: pagerduty_key
  namespace: default
spec:
  id: secret/pagerduty#key
  provider: vault
EOF
{{< /highlight >}}

Now you can securely pass your PagerDuty Events API Integration Key in Sensu checks, handlers, and mutators by referring to the `pagerduty_key` secret.
In this guide, you'll use your `pagerduty_key` secret in a handler.

## Add a handler

### Register the PagerDuty Handler asset

To begin, register the [Sensu PagerDuty Handler asset][23] with [`sensuctl asset add`][22]:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl asset add sensu/sensu-pagerduty-handler:1.2.0 -r pagerduty-handler
{{< /highlight >}}

This example uses the `-r` (rename) flag to specify a shorter name for the asset: `pagerduty-handler`.

_**NOTE**: You can [adjust the asset definition][26] according to your Sensu configuration if needed._

Run `sensuctl asset list --format yaml` to confirm that the asset is ready to use.

With this handler, Sensu can trigger and resolve PagerDuty incidents.
However, you still need to add your secret to the handler spec so that it requires your backend to request secrets from your secrets provider.

### Add your secret to the handler spec

> To create a handler definition using Sensu's built-in `Env` secret provider, run:

Reviewer: The handler definition will be the same regardless of the secret provider.

Author: Wouldn't the `secrets.secret` value be different? `env` for Env or `vault` for VaultProvider?
Edit: never mind, I see.

Reviewer: Nope.
- secrets.Name is the name of the value you use in the command.. for example, I added `--dedup-key $DEDUP_KEY` to the example command.
- secrets.Secret is the name of the Sensu secret. In your example you named both Sensu secrets `pagerduty_key`.

Author: Thank you -- it made sense once I read on to your correction in the handler example.

> However, you still need to add your secret to the handler spec so it will require your backend to request secrets from your secrets provider.

Author: ```suggestion
However, you still need to add your secret to the handler spec so that it requires your backend to request secrets from your secrets provider.
```

{{< highlight shell >}}
cat << EOF | sensuctl create
---
api_version: core/v2
type: Handler
metadata:
  namespace: default
  name: pagerduty
spec:
  type: pipe
  command: pagerduty-handler
  secrets:
  - name: pagerduty_key
    secret: env
  runtime_assets:
  - pagerduty-handler
  timeout: 10
  filters:

>   - is_incident

Reviewer: ```
---
api_version: core/v2
type: Handler
metadata:
  namespace: default
  name: pagerduty
spec:
  type: pipe
  command: pagerduty-handler --dedup-key $DEDUP_KEY
  secrets:
  - name: DEDUP_KEY
    secret: pagerduty_key
  runtime_assets:
  - pagerduty-handler
  timeout: 10
  filters:
  - is_incident
```

EOF
{{< /highlight >}}

To create a handler definition using your HashiCorp Vault secret, run:

{{< highlight shell >}}
cat << EOF | sensuctl create
---
api_version: core/v2
type: Handler
metadata:
  namespace: default
  name: pagerduty
spec:
  type: pipe
  command: pagerduty-handler
  secrets:
  - name: secret/pagerduty#key
    secret: vault
  timeout: 10
  filters:
  - is_incident
EOF

> {{< /highlight >}}

Reviewer: The handler definition will be the same regardless of the secret provider. This second can be removed.

[1]: https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/what-is-vault/
[2]: ../../reference/secrets-providers/
[3]: https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/token/
[4]: https://www.vaultproject.io/api/auth/cert/index.html
[5]: ../../installation/install-sensu/#install-the-sensu-backend
[6]: ../../installation/install-sensu/#install-sensu-agents
[7]: ../../installation/install-sensu/#install-sensuctl
[8]: ../../api/secrets/
[9]: ../../reference/secrets/
[10]: ../../reference/secrets-providers/
[11]: ../../installation/install-sensu/#install-sensu-agents
[12]: https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/concepts/lease.html#lease-durations-and-renewal
[13]: ../../api/secrets#providers-provider-put
[14]: ../../api/secrets#secrets-secret-put
[15]: https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/install/
[16]: https://learn.hashicorp.com/vault
[17]: ../../reference/secrets-providers#tls-vault
[18]: https://learn.hashicorp.com/vault/getting-started/dev-server
[19]: #add-a-handler
[20]: ../../getting-started/enterprise/
[21]: ../../reference/backend/#configuration-via-environment-variables
[22]: ../../sensuctl/reference/#install-asset-definitions
[23]: https://bonsai.sensu.io/assets/sensu/sensu-pagerduty-handler

> [24]: ../monitor-server-resources/

Author: ```suggestion
[24]: ../monitor-server-resources/
[25]: https://www.vaultproject.io/downloads/

```

  - [Add your secret to the handler spec](#add-your-secret-to-the-handler-spec)
- [Next steps](#next-steps)

**COMMERCIAL FEATURE**: Access the Env and VaultProvider secrets provider datatypes in the packaged Sensu Go distribution.
For more information, see [Get started with commercial features][20].

Sensu's secrets management allows you to avoid exposing secrets like usernames, passwords, and access keys in your Sensu configuration.
In this guide, you'll learn how to use Sensu's built-in secrets provider, `Env`, or [HashiCorp Vault][1] as your external [secrets provider][2] and authenticate without exposing your secrets

To follow this guide, you’ll need to [install the Sensu backend][5], have at least one [Sensu agent][11] running, and [install and configure sensuctl][7].

Secrets are configured via [secrets resources][8].
A secret resource definition refers to the secrets provider (`Env` or `VaultProvider`) and an ID (the named secret to fetch from the secrets provider).

This guide explains how to set up your [PagerDuty Events API Integration Key][27] as a secret and a PagerDuty handler that requires the secret.
Your Sensu backend can then execute the handler with any check.

> You can use secrets management in handler, mutator, and check execution.

Author: ```suggestion

You can use secrets management in handler, mutator, and check execution.
```

### Create your backend environment variable

To use the built-in `Env` secrets provider, you will add your secret as a [backend environment variable][21].

First, make sure you have created the files where you will store [backend environment variables][21]. 

Then, retrieve your [PagerDuty Events API Integration Key][27].
This is the secret you will set up as an environment variable.

Run the following code, after you replace `INTEGRATION_KEY` with your PagerDuty Events API Integration Key:

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight "Ubuntu/Debian" >}}
$ echo 'SENSU_PAGERDUTY_KEY=INTEGRATION_KEY' | sudo tee /etc/default/sensu-backend
$ sudo systemctl restart sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight "RHEL/CentOS" >}}
$ echo 'SENSU_PAGERDUTY_KEY=INTEGRATION_KEY' | sudo tee /etc/sysconfig/sensu-backend
$ sudo systemctl restart sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

This configures the `SENSU_PAGERDUTY_KEY` environment variable to your PagerDuty Events API Integration Key in the context of the sensu-backend process.

### Create your secret

Next, use sensuctl create to create your secret.

> This code creates a secret named `pagerduty_key` that refers to the environment variable ID `sensu-pagerduty-key`.

Author: ```suggestion
This code creates a secret named `pagerduty_key` that refers to the environment variable ID `SENSU_PAGERDUTY_KEY`.
```

api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: pagerduty_key
  namespace: default
spec:
  id: secret/pagerduty#key
  provider: vault
EOF
{{< /highlight >}}

Now you can securely pass your PagerDuty Events API Integration Key in Sensu checks, handlers, and mutators by referring to the `pagerduty_key` secret.
In this guide, you'll use your `pagerduty_key` secret in a handler.

## Add a handler

### Register the PagerDuty Handler asset

To begin, register the [Sensu PagerDuty Handler asset][23] with [`sensuctl asset add`][22]:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl asset add sensu/sensu-pagerduty-handler:1.2.0 -r pagerduty-handler
{{< /highlight >}}

This example uses the `-r` (rename) flag to specify a shorter name for the asset: `pagerduty-handler`.

_**NOTE**: You can [adjust the asset definition][26] according to your Sensu configuration if needed._

Run `sensuctl asset list --format yaml` to confirm that the asset is ready to use.

With this handler, Sensu can trigger and resolve PagerDuty incidents.
However, you still need to add your secret to the handler spec so that it requires your backend to request secrets from your secrets provider.

### Add your secret to the handler spec

> To create a handler definition using Sensu's built-in `Env` secret provider, run:

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you have set up your secret, you can create a handler definition. Run:
```

{{< highlight shell >}}
cat << EOF | sensuctl create
---
api_version: core/v2
type: Handler
metadata:
  namespace: default
  name: pagerduty
spec:
  type: pipe

>   command: pagerduty-handler

Author: ```suggestion
  command: pagerduty-handler --dedup-key $DEDUP_KEY
```

  secrets:

>   - name: pagerduty_key

Author: ```suggestion
  - name: DEDUP_KEY
```

>     secret: env

Author: ```suggestion
    secret: pagerduty_key
```
